---
title: "Use Your Influence"
date: "2017-10-15"
weight: 4
---

What makes our "private governance" approach new and different from other ways
of thinking about private-sector actions is in transforming isolated voluntary
actions by one individual or organization into _governance_: having influence over
the decisions and actions of other people and organizations.

When you do something to reduce your own carbon footprint, that action can
affect what others do. If you find that you save money or otherwise improve your
life, you may tell your friends, neighbors, and co-workers, and when they hear
about how well the action worked for you, they may try it themselves. Sharing
information about what has worked for you can amplify the effects of your
actions and also help people you know.

If many people in your community become interested in solar energy, but
encounter obstacles, such as utility regulations that discourage home solar
installations, you can work together to persuade your city or state government
to remove those obstacles. If many people in your community want to fix up your
houses to make them more energy-efficient, you mat be able to work together to
negotiate better prices from suppliers and contractors.

If most people within your social circle adopt responsible behavior about  not
wasting  energy, then peer pressure can become an effective tool to promote
responsible behavior: just as nobody wants to be the one person in the
neighborhood who has an unkempt lawn or a shabby looking house, nobody will want
to be the one person who is wasteful and irresponsible in their energy use.

Through sharing information, working together with your friends and neighbors,
and becoming part of an expanding group of responsible energy consumers in your
community, you can leverage your own actions to influence others to adopt
reasonable measures that save energy and protect the environment.
